Processros read and interpret instructions stored in a memory

The shell is a command-line interpreter that prints a prompt, waits for command-line, then performs the command. 


1.4.1
2023-06-05-19-43-04.png

#### Buses
Electricial Conduits running throughout the system is caled **Buses** that carry bytes of information between components.  
Buses are typically designed to transfer fix-sized chunks of bytes known as **words**.  

#### I/O devices
System`s connection to external world.  
Each I/O devices is connected to the I/O bus, either a **controller** or an **adapter**.  
Controllers are chipset in a device itself or on a motherboard.  
Adapter is a card that plugs into a slot of a motherboard.

#### Main Memory
Temporary storage device that holds both a *program* and the *data* it manipulates during the processor is executing the program.
Main Memory physically is consisted of a collection of DRAM chips. Logically, memory is organized as a linear array of bytes, each with its own unique address starting at zero.

#### Processor(CPU)
CPU is an engine that interprets instructions stored in a main memory. Center of CPU is register called the PC(program counter).  
At any point of time, PC points at some machine-language instructions in main memory.  

While the power is on, CPU repeatedly executes the instructions pointed at by the PC and updates it to point to the next instructions.  
CPU appears to operate according to a very simple *instruction execution model* defined by its *instruction set architecture*. 
